---
type: lab
date: 2025-07-07
title: Software Setup: Git, Github, VS code
---
# Software Setup

In today's Lab session, we will 

- install Git and VS code.
- create a Github account and link it to your computer.
- create a test repository and understand how it works.
- create a group website.

## Git and Github

### 1. Installation

#### Mac

- Open terminal.
- Type `git --version` and press enter.
- If git is already installed, then the installed version will be displayed. If git is not installed, then it will automatically start installation.

#### Windows

- Go to https://git-scm.com/downloads/win and download the file.
- During installation, there will be a step for setting PATH environment. Choose 'Git from the command line and also from 3rd-party software'.
- After installation, open cmd.
- Type `git--version` and press enter.
- If git is correctly installed, then ther version will be displayed.

## 2. Create a Github account

- Go to https://github.com and create a new account. Use the email that you frequently use.

### 3. Config setup

- Open terminal (Mac) or cmd (Windows).
- Type the following script and press enter to setup name: `<name>` should be your name.

``` zsh
git config --global user.name "<name>"
```

- Type the following script and press enter to setup email: `<email>` should be your github account email.

```zsh
git config --global user.email "<email>"
```

- Check your config

```zsh
git config list
```

- To exit, press `q`



## VS code

### 1. Installation

- Go to https://code.visualstudio.com/Download and download.

#### Mac

- After installation, move `Visual Studio Code.app` to Applications folder. 
- Open VS code.
- Press `Cmd+Shift+P` and type `Shell Command` and click `install 'code' command ...`.
- Open terminal and type `code .` and press enter.

#### Windows

- During installation, please make sure you check "Add to PATH".
- After installation, open cmd and type `code .` and press enter.

### 2. Link to Github

- Open VS code.
- Click the profile icon at the bottom left.
- Click `Backup and Sync Settings`.
- Click `Sign in`.
- Click `Sign in with Github` and follow instructions.
- (Optional) Activate Github Copilot.



## Test repository

- Create `test` directory whereever you want.
- Open VS code and click `File-Open folder`  and choose `test`.
- Create `README.md` file.
- Type anything :) Quick reference to markdown syntax: https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/
- Press `Cmd+S` (Mac) or `Ctrl+S` (Windows) to save it.
- Click source-control icon on the left.
- Click `Initialize repository`. Now, in `test` directory, a hidden directory `.git` is created.
- Stage and Commit.
- Click `Publish branch` and follow instructions.
- Try push and pull.
- After enough exercises, you may delete this repository from both your computer and github.



**File status markers**

- **U**: untracked (new file but hasn't been added to the repository yet)
- **A**: added (new file added to the repository)
- **M**: modified
- **R**: renamed

- **D**: deleted



Throughout this course, you may have to maintain three repositories:

1. Your own repository for lab sessions, your own exercise.
2. Group project (possibly collaboration).
3. Group website (collaboration).

## Create the group website

Every group will create a group website to present their final project.

- Go to https://github.com/wonjun-seo/cosmos-demo and follow the instruction.

#### Assignments

Update member information!

---

In tomorrow's Lab session, we will install Python.

